.\" Manpage for wolfssl ecparam.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl ecparam man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-ecparam, ecparam \- EC parameter and key generation
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl ecparam [-in file] [-out file] [-inform PEM|DER] [-outform PEM|DER] [-genkey] [-name curve] [-text]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generates elliptic curve keys and parameters, or reads an EC private key
and writes its curve parameters. With -in alone the output is an EC
PARAMETERS OID block (and optional -text curve name), not the private key.
Private key output requires -genkey.
.SH OPTIONS
-in file              input file to read an EC private key from (optional).
.br
                      Does not read standalone EC PARAMETERS files. When
.br
                      combined with -genkey, -in is read but then replaced
.br
                      by a newly generated key.
.br
.LP
-out file             output file.
.br
.LP
-inform PEM|DER       input format.
.br
.LP
-outform PEM|DER      output format.
.br
.LP
-genkey               generate a new EC private key and write it to -out.
.br
.LP
-name curve           curve name, e.g. secp256r1 or secp384r1. The list of
.br
                      supported curve names is shown by "wolfssl ecparam -help".
.br
.LP
-text                 output a text representation of the curve name.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-dhparam(1) ", " wolfssl-dsaparam(1) ", " wolfssl-genkey(1) ", " wolfssl-req(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
