.\" Manpage for wolfssl pkcs12.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl pkcs12 man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-pkcs12, pkcs12 \- parse PKCS#12 bundles
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl pkcs12 -in file [-out file] [-passin source] [-nodes] [-nocerts] [-nokeys]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Parses a PKCS#12 bundle and extracts the certificates and private key it
contains.
.SH OPTIONS
-in file              file input for the PKCS#12 bundle (required).
.br
.LP
-out file             file to write results to (default stdout).
.br
.LP
-passin source        password source for encrypted input bundles, e.g.
.br
                      pass:<password> or stdin. Required when the bundle is
.br
                      encrypted.
.br
.LP
-nodes                do not encrypt the private key on output. Without
.br
                      -nodes, the user is prompted on stdin for an output
.br
                      encryption password.
.br
.LP
-nocerts              do not output certificates.
.br
.LP
-nokeys               do not output keys.
.SH NOTES
Available only when wolfSSL is built with PKCS#12 support (HAVE_PKCS12) and
filesystem support. -passout is accepted for OpenSSL compatibility but is
currently a no-op.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-pkcs8(1) ", " wolfssl-pkcs7(1) ", " wolfssl-pkey(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
