.\" Manpage for wolfssl encrypt.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl encrypt man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-encrypt, encrypt \- cipher routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl encrypt <-algorithm> [-in filename] [-out filename] [-pwd password] [-iv IV] [-key hex] [-inkey filename] [enc options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Encrypts a file using a cipher and a password or key. For AES and 3DES
(EVP path), password-based encryption derives both key and IV from the
password and salt. For legacy non-EVP ciphers (e.g. Camellia), password
mode derives the key from the password but generates a random IV stored in
the file header. For decryption, see
.B wolfssl-decrypt(1).
.SH ALGORITHMS
See
.BR wolfssl-enc(1)
for the supported cipher names and key sizes.
.SH OPTIONS
-in filename          the input file to encrypt. When omitted, the user is
.br
                      prompted interactively for a file name or string.
.br
.LP
-out filename         the output file. For AES and 3DES, defaults to
.br
                      stdout when omitted. For other ciphers, the user is
.br
                      prompted when omitted.
.br
.LP
-pwd password         password to derive the key from. Prompts user if password
.br
                      option is not provided. If password option is used iv is not required.
.br
.LP
-iv IV                the actual iv to use with -key or -inkey. If not
.br
                      provided with an explicit key, the command errors out.
.br
                      Must be provided in hex.
.br
.LP
-key hex              the actual key to use, supplied as a hex string on the
.br
                      command line. Length must match the algorithm key size.
.br
                      Requires -iv: when an explicit key is supplied, no
.br
                      salt-based key/iv derivation runs and no Salted__
.br
                      header is written.
.br
.LP
-inkey filename       read the key from a file. The file may contain either a
.br
                      hex-encoded key (whitespace within the file is ignored)
.br
                      or a raw binary key whose byte length matches the
.br
                      algorithm key size. The argument must name a real
.br
                      file; use -key to pass a hex key on the command line.
.br
.LP
Additional options shared with
.BR wolfssl-enc(1)
also work here: -pbkdf2, -md, -base64, -nosalt, -p, -k, -pass.
.SH EXAMPLES
Encrypt a file with a password:
.RS
wolfssl encrypt -aes-cbc-256 -in myfile.txt -out myfile.enc -pwd mypassword
.RE
.LP
Encrypt with an explicit key (advanced):
.RS
wolfssl encrypt -aes-cbc-256 -in myfile.txt -out myfile.enc -key 0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef -iv 0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-decrypt(1) ", " wolfssl-enc(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
