.\" Manpage for wolfssl req.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl req man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-req, req \- generate certificate requests and self-signed certificates
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl req [-new] [-in file] [-out file] [-key file] [-newkey type:bits] [-keyout file] [-inform PEM|DER] [-outform PEM|DER] [-config file] [-days n] [-x509] [-subj name] [-extensions section] [-nodes] [-passout source] [-sha|-sha224|-sha256|-sha384|-sha512] [-verify] [-text] [-noout]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates a PKCS#10 certificate signing request (CSR), or with \-x509 a
self-signed certificate. The signing key may be supplied with \-key or
generated on the fly with \-newkey. Without -subj or -config, subject
fields are collected interactively. Without -keyout, a generated private
key is written to stdout.
.SH OPTIONS
-new                  OpenSSL compatibility flag (no-op).
.br
.LP
-in file              input file to read from.
.br
.LP
-out file             file to write to (default stdout).
.br
.LP
-key file             private key used to sign the certificate request.
.br
.LP
-newkey type:bits     generate the private key to use with the request.
.br
                      RSA: rsa:2048. Dilithium (with -x509 and certgen):
.br
                      dilithium:2, dilithium:3, dilithium:5, or ml-dsa:N.
.br
                      For ECC keys, generate with ecparam first.
.br
.LP
-keyout file          file to output the generated key to.
.br
.LP
-inform PEM|DER       format for -in.
.br
.LP
-outform PEM|DER      format for -out.
.br
.LP
-config file          file to parse for certificate configuration.
.br
.LP
-days n               number of days the certificate should be valid for.
.br
.LP
-x509                 generate a self-signed certificate instead of a CSR.
.br
.LP
-subj name            subject name in /key=value/... format, e.g.
.br
                      /C=US/ST=WA/L=Seattle/O=wolfSSL/CN=wolfSSL.
.br
.LP
-extensions section   section of the config file to read extensions from.
.br
.LP
-nodes                do not encrypt the private key on output. Without
.br
                      -nodes, generated keys are encrypted and the user is
.br
                      prompted for an encryption password.
.br
.LP
-passout source       password source for encrypting the output key, e.g.
.br
                      pass:<password> or stdin.
.br
.LP
-sha, -sha224, -sha256, -sha384, -sha512
.br
                      signing digest (default SHA-256 when omitted).
.br
.LP
-verify               check the signature on the request.
.br
.LP
-text                 output human readable text of the request.
.br
.LP
-noout                do not print the generated results.
.SH EXAMPLES
Create a certificate signing request (CSR) with a new key:
.RS
wolfssl req -new -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout mykey.pem -out mycsr.pem -subj "/C=US/ST=WA/L=Seattle/O=MyCompany/CN=example.com"
.RE
.LP
Create a self-signed certificate valid for 365 days:
.RS
wolfssl req -new -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout mykey.pem -out mycert.pem -days 365 -subj "/C=US/O=Test/CN=localhost"
.RE
.LP
View a CSR in human-readable format:
.RS
wolfssl req -in mycsr.pem -text -noout
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-genkey(1) ", " wolfssl-ca(1) ", " wolfssl-x509(1)
.SH NOTES
Available only when wolfSSL is built with certificate request support
(WOLFSSL_CERT_REQ) and filesystem support.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
