.\" Manpage for wolfssl asn1parse.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl asn1parse man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-asn1parse, asn1parse \- ASN.1 parsing utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl asn1parse [-in file] [-inform DER|PEM|B64] [-out file] [-oid file] [-offset n] [-length n] [-strparse n[,n...]] [-i] [-dump] [-noout] [-help]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Parses an ASN.1 encoded structure (for example a certificate, key, or CRL)
and prints a human readable listing of its tags, lengths, and contents.
Input may be read in DER, PEM, or Base64 form.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
-help                 print the asn1parse help summary and exit.
.br
.LP
-oid file             file of extra OID definitions. Each line uses the
.br
                      format: <oid> <shortName> <long name with spaces>.
.br
                      To use the built in OID table, configure wolfCLU with
.br
                      --enable-oid-table.
.SH I/O OPTIONS
-in file              input file to read the ASN.1 structure from.
.br
.LP
-inform DER|PEM|B64   input file format. One of DER, PEM, or B64 (Base64).
.br
.LP
-out file             output file for the ASN.1 DER data after processing.
.br
                      Best used with -strparse.
.br
.LP
-noout                do not print the parsed output.
.br
.LP
-offset n             offset into the file at which to begin parsing.
.br
.LP
-length n             number of bytes to parse.
.br
.LP
-strparse n[,n...]    offset to an OCTET/BIT STRING to parse. A comma
.br
                      separated list may be given, e.g. -strparse 702,64.
.SH FORMATTING OPTIONS
-i                    indent the output according to structure depth.
.br
.LP
-dump                 print unknown data in hex form.
.SH OUTPUT
Each line is formatted as:
.RS
                     0: 4 [1187]  (0) SEQUENCE
.RE
.LP
where the first number is the offset, the second is the header length, the
value in brackets is the data length, and the value in parentheses is the
depth. Brackets indicate constructed types and a plus indicates a primitive
type.
.SH EXAMPLES
Parse a DER encoded certificate with indented output:
.RS
wolfssl asn1parse -inform DER -in cert.der -i
.RE
.LP
Parse a PEM file and dump unknown data as hex:
.RS
wolfssl asn1parse -in cert.pem -inform PEM -dump
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-x509(1) ", " wolfssl-req(1)
.SH NOTES
Available only when wolfSSL is built with WOLFSSL_ASN_PRINT and without
NO_FILESYSTEM. The -oid option additionally requires object id encoding
support (NO_WC_ENCODE_OBJECT_ID must not be defined). For OpenSSL
compatibility the tool reserves additional flags (e.g. -genstr, -genconf,
-item, -strictpem, -dlimit) that are not yet implemented.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
