.\" Manpage for wolfssl genkey.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl genkey man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-genkey, genkey \- generate cryptographic keys
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl genkey <keytype> -out filename [-size bits] [-outform PEM|DER|RAW] [-output PUB|PRIV|KEYPAIR] [-exponent n] [-name curve] [-level N] [-height N] [-layer N]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generates a key of the requested type and writes the public key, private
key, or both. The set of available key types depends on the wolfSSL
configure options.
.SH KEY TYPES
rsa
.br
ecc
.br
ed25519
.br
dilithium \- only if wolfSSL was built with Dilithium support
.br
ml-dsa    \- only if wolfSSL was built with Dilithium support (produces
.br
            keys with ML-DSA OIDs, not interchangeable with dilithium keys)
.br
xmss / xmssmt \- only if wolfSSL was built with XMSS support
.SH OPTIONS
-out filename         base output filename (required). The suffixes .priv
.br
                      and .pub are added for the private and public key
.br
                      files.
.br
.LP
-size bits            key size in bits (for key types that take a size,
.br
                      e.g. rsa).
.br
.LP
-outform PEM|DER|RAW  output format (default DER). xmss and xmssmt only
.br
                      meaningfully support raw; PEM/DER log a warning.
.br
.LP
-exponent n           RSA public exponent (default 65537).
.br
.LP
-name curve           ECC curve name, e.g. secp256r1 (default curve used
.br
                      when omitted).
.br
.LP
-output PUB|PRIV|KEYPAIR
.br
                      which keys to output. KEYPAIR writes both, PUB writes
.br
                      only the public key, PRIV only the private key.
.br
.LP
-level [2|3|5]        security level for dilithium / ml-dsa keys.
.br
.LP
-height N            tree height. For xmss: 10 or 16. For xmssmt: 20, 40,
.br
                      or 60 (invalid values fall back to 20).
.br
.LP
-layer [2|3|4|6|8|12] number of layers for xmssmt keys.
.SH EXAMPLES
Generate a 2048-bit RSA key pair in DER format (default):
.br
wolfssl genkey rsa -size 2048 -out mykey
.br
.LP
Generate a 2048-bit RSA key pair in PEM format:
.br
wolfssl genkey rsa -size 2048 -out mykey -outform pem -output KEYPAIR
.br
.LP
The command above outputs the files mykey.priv and mykey.pub.
.br
.LP
Generate a Dilithium key pair:
.br
wolfssl genkey dilithium -level 3 -out mykey -outform der -output KEYPAIR
.br
.LP
Generate an XMSS key pair:
.br
wolfssl genkey xmss -height 10 -out mykey -outform raw -output KEYPAIR
.SH NOTES
For XMSS/XMSS^MT the key file name encodes the parameters (for example
"XMSS-SHA2_10_256"); these parameters are determined from the file name
when signing.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-req(1) ", " wolfssl-ca(1) ", " wolfssl-sign_verify(1) ", " wolfssl-encrypt(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
