.\" Manpage for wolfssl ocsp.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl ocsp man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-ocsp, ocsp \- OCSP client and responder utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl ocsp [client options] [responder options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Acts as an OCSP client to check certificate revocation status, or as an
OCSP responder (when \-port is given) to serve status responses.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
-CAfile file          trusted certificates file.
.br
.LP
-help                 print the ocsp help summary and exit.
.SH CLIENT OPTIONS
Client mode is entered by any of \-cert, \-url, or \-issuer, and requires
both \-cert and \-issuer to complete a check.
.LP
-cert file            certificate to check (required for client mode).
.br
.LP
-issuer file          issuer certificate (required for client mode).
.br
.LP
-url URL              responder URL (overrides the AIA in the certificate).
.br
.LP
-no_nonce             do not add an OCSP nonce to the request.
.SH RESPONDER OPTIONS
-port n               port to run the responder on.
.br
.LP
-index file           certificate status index file.
.br
.LP
-rsigner file         responder certificate used to sign responses.
.br
.LP
-rkey file            responder key used to sign responses.
.br
.LP
-CA file              CA certificate.
.br
.LP
-scgi                 use the SCGI protocol (for a web server reverse proxy).
.br
.LP
-nrequest n           stop the responder after processing n requests (0 =
.br
                      unlimited).
.SH EXAMPLES
Check a certificate's status against the responder named in its AIA:
.RS
wolfssl ocsp -cert server-cert.pem -issuer ca-cert.pem
.RE
.LP
Check a certificate against an explicit responder URL:
.RS
wolfssl ocsp -cert server-cert.pem -issuer ca-cert.pem -url http://ocsp.example.com
.RE
.LP
Run an OCSP responder on port 22221:
.RS
wolfssl ocsp -port 22221 -index index.txt -rsigner ocsp-cert.pem -rkey ocsp-key.pem -CA ca-cert.pem
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-verify(1) ", " wolfssl-crl(1) ", " wolfssl-x509(1)
.SH NOTES
Available only when wolfSSL is built with OCSP support (HAVE_OCSP and
HAVE_OCSP_RESPONDER). Exactly one mode must be selected: responder mode via
\-port, or client mode via \-cert/\-url/\-issuer (see CLIENT OPTIONS).
Selecting both, or neither, is an error. For OpenSSL compatibility the tool
accepts many additional ocsp flags (e.g. \-CApath, \-ignore_err, \-host,
\-path, \-serial, \-nonce, \-out, \-text), but these are not yet implemented
and currently return an error.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
