.\" Manpage for wolfCLU decrypt.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl decrypt man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-decrypt, decrypt \- cipher routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl decrypt <-algorithm> -in filename [-out filename] [-pwd password] [-iv IV] [-key hex] [-inkey filename] [enc options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Decrypts a file using a cipher and a password or key. The algorithm must
match the one used for encryption. For AES and 3DES (EVP path),
password-based decryption extracts the salt from the file and derives key
and IV from the password and salt. For legacy non-EVP ciphers (e.g.
Camellia), salt and IV are read from the file header. For explicit keys
and IVs, you must provide the same values used during encryption. For
encryption, see
.B wolfssl-encrypt(1).
.SH ALGORITHMS
See
.BR wolfssl-enc(1)
for the supported cipher names and key sizes.
.SH OPTIONS
-in filename          the input file to decrypt (required).
.br
.LP
-out filename         the output file. For AES and 3DES, defaults to
.br
                      stdout when omitted. For other ciphers, the user is
.br
                      prompted when omitted.
.br
.LP
-pwd password         password to derive the key from. If -pwd is not
.br
                      provided, the command exits with an error (unlike
.br
                      encrypt, decrypt does not prompt for a password).
.br
.LP
-iv IV                the IV to use when -key or -inkey is supplied.
.br
                      Must be provided in hex. Not used for password-based
.br
                      decryption on the EVP path.
.br
.LP
-key hex              the actual key to use, supplied as a hex string on the
.br
                      command line. Length must match the algorithm key size.
.br
                      Requires -iv: when an explicit key is supplied, no
.br
                      salt-based key/iv derivation runs, so the IV must be
.br
                      provided directly.
.br
.LP
-inkey filename       read the key from a file. The file may contain either a
.br
                      hex-encoded key (whitespace within the file is ignored)
.br
                      or a raw binary key whose byte length matches the
.br
                      algorithm key size. The argument must name a real
.br
                      file; use -key to pass a hex key on the command line.
.br
.LP
Additional options shared with
.BR wolfssl-enc(1)
also work here: -pbkdf2, -md, -base64, -nosalt, -p, -k, -pass.
.SH EXAMPLES
Decrypt a file with a password:
.RS
wolfssl decrypt -aes-cbc-256 -in myfile.enc -out myfile.txt -pwd mypassword
.RE
.LP
Decrypt with an explicit key (must match encryption):
.RS
wolfssl decrypt -aes-cbc-256 -in myfile.enc -out myfile.txt -key 0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef -iv 0123456789abcdef0123456789abcdef
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-encrypt(1) ", " wolfssl-enc(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
