.\" Manpage for wolfssl verify.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl verify man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-verify, verify \- verify an X.509 certificate chain
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl verify -CAfile <ca file> [-untrusted <intermediate file>] [-crl_check] [-partial_chain] <cert to verify>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Verifies an X.509 certificate against a trusted CA certificate, optionally
building the chain with an intermediate certificate and checking
revocation.
.SH OPTIONS
-CAfile file          trusted CA certificate to verify against (PEM only).
.br
                      May be a bundle; must contain a self-signed root CA
.br
                      unless \-partial_chain is given. See NOTES.
.br
.LP
-untrusted file       intermediate certificate file. Only one intermediate
.br
                      certificate may be loaded.
.br
.LP
-crl_check            enable CRL checking. Requires wolfSSL built with CRL
.br
                      support (HAVE_CRL).
.br
.LP
-partial_chain        allow verification to succeed with a partial chain.
.br
                      Also permits using a non-root CA in -CAfile.
.SH EXAMPLES
Verify a certificate against a trusted root CA:
.RS
wolfssl verify -CAfile ca-cert.pem server-cert.pem
.RE
.LP
Verify a certificate with an intermediate CA:
.RS
wolfssl verify -CAfile ca-cert.pem -untrusted intermediate-cert.pem server-cert.pem
.RE
.LP
Verify a certificate with CRL checking (concatenate the CRL PEM into the
CA file; there is no separate CRL-loading option):
.RS
wolfssl verify -CAfile ca-and-crl.pem -crl_check server-cert.pem
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-x509(1) ", " wolfssl-crl(1)
.SH NOTES
The certificate to verify is given as the final argument. -CAfile must be
a PEM file, and may contain a bundle of multiple certificates; the bundle
is scanned in any order for a self-signed root CA. Every candidate CA
certificate, including the self-signed root, must assert basicConstraints
CA:TRUE; certificates without it are skipped when searching for a root
unless -partial_chain is given. This is intentional hardening versus
older wolfssl-clu releases, which accepted a self-signed root lacking
basicConstraints. Unless -partial_chain is given, the bundle must contain
a self-signed root CA; if none is found, verification fails with "CA file
does not contain a self-signed root CA (use -partial_chain to trust an
intermediate)". With -crl_check, revocation
data must already be present in -CAfile (for example by concatenating the
CRL PEM after the CA certificate). Available only when wolfSSL is built
with filesystem support.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
