.\" Manpage for wolfssl enc.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl enc man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-enc, enc \- generic symmetric encryption and decryption
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl enc <-algorithm> [-d] [-in file] [-out file] [-pwd password] [-pass source] [-k password] [-key hex] [-iv hex] [-inkey file] [-md digest] [-pbkdf2] [-base64] [-nosalt] [-p]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Encrypts or decrypts a file using a symmetric cipher. By default enc
encrypts; the -d flag selects decryption. This is the OpenSSL-style generic
cipher mode; the encrypt and decrypt commands are direction-fixed
equivalents.
.SH ALGORITHMS
-aes-cbc-[128|192|256]
.br
        uses AES in CBC mode with the designated key size.
.br
-aes-ctr-[128|192|256]
.br
        uses AES in CTR mode (requires WOLFSSL_AES_COUNTER).
.br
-3des-cbc-[56|112|168]
.br
        uses 3DES (requires --enable-des3).
.br
-camellia-cbc-[128|192|256]
.br
        uses Camellia (requires --enable-camellia).
.SH OPTIONS
-d                    decrypt the input (default is to encrypt).
.br
.LP
-in file              input file to read from.
.br
.LP
-out file             file to write to (default stdout).
.br
.LP
-pwd password         password to derive the key from.
.br
.LP
-k password           alternate option for password input.
.br
.LP
-pass source          password source, e.g. pass:<password>.
.br
.LP
-key hex              explicit key as a hex string. Requires -iv; no
.br
                      salt-based derivation is performed.
.br
.LP
-iv hex               initialization vector as a hex string.
.br
.LP
-inkey file           read the key from a file.
.br
.LP
-md digest            digest to use for key derivation, e.g. md5, sha256.
.br
.LP
-pbkdf2               use PBKDF2 for key derivation.
.br
.LP
-base64               base64-encode output (encrypt) or decode input (decrypt).
.br
.LP
-nosalt               do not use a salt in key derivation.
.br
.LP
-p                    print debug information (key, IV, salt).
.SH EXAMPLES
Encrypt a file:
.br
wolfssl enc -aes-cbc-128 -pwd Thi$i$myPa$$w0rd -in plain.txt -out cipher.txt
.br
.LP
Decrypt it again:
.br
wolfssl enc -d -aes-cbc-128 -pwd Thi$i$myPa$$w0rd -in cipher.txt -out plain.txt
.SH NOTES
Available only when wolfSSL is built with filesystem support.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-encrypt(1) ", " wolfssl-decrypt(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
