.\" Manpage for wolfssl sign/verify (rsa, ecc, ed25519, dilithium, xmss, xmssmt).
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl sign/verify man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-sign_verify, sign, verify \- raw public-key signing and signature verification
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl -<keytype> -sign -inkey <priv_key> -in <filename> -out <filename> [-inform PEM|DER]
.br
wolfssl -<keytype> -verify -inkey <key> -sigfile <signature> -out <filename> [-in <original>] [-pubin] [-inform PEM|DER]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Creates or verifies a raw public-key signature. The keytype is one of the
supported algorithms below. These are the per-algorithm sign/verify modes;
for digest-based signing see dgst, and for RSA key conversion see the rsa
command.
.SH KEY TYPES
-rsa       Legacy RSA signing and verification.
.br
-ecc       ECC signing and verification.
.br
-ed25519   Ed25519 signing and verification (requires HAVE_ED25519).
.br
-ml-dsa    ML-DSA (Dilithium) signing and verification (requires HAVE_DILITHIUM).
.br
           -dilithium is accepted as an alias for -ml-dsa.
.br
-xmss      XMSS signing and verification (requires WOLFSSL_HAVE_XMSS).
.br
-xmssmt    XMSS^MT signing and verification (requires WOLFSSL_HAVE_XMSS).
.SH OPTIONS
-sign                 create a signature.
.br
.LP
-verify               verify a signature.
.br
.LP
-inkey file           key to use. A private key for signing; for verify this
.br
                      may be a private or public key (use -pubin for a public
.br
                      key).
.br
.LP
-in file              input file: the data to sign, or for verify the
.br
                      original data (required for most key types; ignored
.br
                      for RSA verify).
.br
.LP
-inform PEM|DER       input format of the key file (default DER).
.br
.LP
-out file             output file for the signature when signing (required
.br
                      for all key types). Also required for RSA verify;
.br
                      optional for other verify modes.
.br
.LP
-sigfile file         signature file to check when verifying.
.br
.LP
-pubin                treat the key supplied with -inkey as a public key.
.SH EXAMPLES
Sign a file with an RSA private key:
.br
wolfssl -rsa -sign -inkey priv.pem -inform pem -in message.txt -out message.sig
.br
.LP
Verify with an RSA public key:
.br
wolfssl -rsa -verify -inkey pub.pem -inform pem -sigfile message.sig -out verify.out -pubin
.br
.LP
Verify with an ECC public key:
.br
wolfssl -ecc -verify -inkey pub.pem -inform pem -sigfile message.sig -in message.txt -pubin
.br
.LP
Sign a file with an ML-DSA private key:
.br
wolfssl -ml-dsa -sign -inkey mykey.priv -inform der -in message.bin -out message.sig
.br
.LP
Verify with an ML-DSA public key:
.br
wolfssl -ml-dsa -verify -inkey mykey.pub -inform der -sigfile message.sig -in message.bin -pubin
.SH NOTES
Available only when wolfSSL is built with filesystem support. The set of
usable key types depends on the wolfSSL configure options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-dgst(1) ", " wolfssl-genkey(1) ", " wolfssl-req(1) ", " wolfssl-ca(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
