.\" Manpage for wolfssl dhparam.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl dhparam man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-dhparam, dhparam \- Diffie-Hellman parameter and key generation
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl dhparam [-in file] [-out file] [-genkey] [-check] [-noout] numbits
.br
wolfssl dhparam -in file [-out file] [-genkey] [-check] [-noout]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Generates Diffie-Hellman parameters and keys, or reads and displays
existing DH parameters. Parameter generation requires a trailing numbits
positional argument (for example 1024, 2048, or 4096). Omitting numbits
when generating parameters fails.
.SH OPTIONS
-in file              input file for PEM DH parameters to read (PEM only;
.br
                      there is no -inform option).
.br
.LP
-out file             file to output to (default stdout).
.br
.LP
-genkey               generate a DH key from parameters supplied via -in or
.br
                      generated in the same command. Does not generate
.br
                      parameters by itself.
.br
.LP
-check                check that the parameters are valid.
.br
.LP
-noout                do not print out the parameters.
.SH NOTES
Available only when wolfSSL is built with DH support (not NO_DH).
4096-bit parameters require wolfSSL built with HAVE_FFDHE_4096.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-dsaparam(1) ", " wolfssl-ecparam(1) ", " wolfssl-genkey(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
