.\" Manpage for wolfssl ca.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl ca man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-ca, ca \- sign certificates from a CSR or self-sign
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl ca -in CSR [-config file] [-keyfile file] [-cert file] [-out file] [-inform PEM|DER] [-outform PEM|DER] [-md digest] [-days n] [-extensions section] [-selfsign] [-altkey file] [-altpub file] [-subjkey file] [-altextend]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Acts as a minimal certificate authority. Reads a certificate signing
request (CSR) and issues a signed certificate using the CA certificate and
private key, or self-signs using the supplied key. CA key and certificate
may be supplied on the command line or via the [CA_default] section of
the configuration file (see -config).
.SH OPTIONS
-in file              CSR file to read the request from (required for normal
.br
                      signing).
.br
.LP
-out file             output file for the signed certificate.
.br
.LP
-keyfile file         private key used to sign the certificate (RSA, ECDSA, or
.br
                      ML-DSA). For ML-DSA, the companion public key must
.br
                      co-exist and is loaded automatically (e.g. <name>.pub
.br
                      for <name>.priv, or <stem>Pub.pem for <stem>.pem).
.br
                      The key may also be set via [CA_default] private_key.
.br
.LP
-cert file            CA certificate to issue from.
.br
.LP
-config file          configuration file to read CA settings from.
.br
.LP
-inform PEM|DER       input format of the CSR.
.br
.LP
-outform PEM|DER      output format of the certificate. The normal signing
.br
                      path always writes PEM; -outform der is currently
.br
                      ignored.
.br
.LP
-md digest            signing digest to use, e.g. sha256.
.br
.LP
-days n               number of days the certificate is valid for.
.br
.LP
-extensions section   section of the config file to read extensions from.
.br
.LP
-selfsign             sign using the key associated with the certificate
.br
                      instead of a separate CA certificate.
.br
.LP
-altkey file          alternate private key (dual-algorithm certificates;
.br
                      requires wolfSSL built with WOLFSSL_DUAL_ALG_CERTS and
.br
                      HAVE_DILITHIUM).
.br
.LP
-altpub file          alternate public key (dual-algorithm certificates).
.br
.LP
-subjkey file         subject key for dual-algorithm certificates.
.br
.LP
-altextend            extend with an alternate key (dual-algorithm certificates).
.SH EXAMPLES
Self-sign a CSR with its own key:
.RS
wolfssl ca -selfsign -in mycsr.pem -keyfile mykey.pem -out mycert.pem -days 365 -md sha256
.RE
.LP
Sign a CSR as a CA with your CA certificate and key:
.RS
wolfssl ca -in csr.pem -out cert.pem -keyfile ca-key.pem -cert ca-cert.pem -days 365 -md sha256
.RE
.LP
Sign a CSR with an ML-DSA CA key:
.RS
wolfssl ca -in csr.pem -out cert.pem -keyfile ca-key.priv -cert ca-cert.pem -days 365
.RE
.LP
View the certificate details after signing:
.RS
wolfssl x509 -in cert.pem -text -noout
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-req(1) ", " wolfssl-x509(1) ", " wolfssl-verify(1)
.SH NOTES
This command is only available when wolfSSL is built with filesystem
support (not WOLFCLU_NO_FILESYSTEM).
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
