.\" Manpage for wolfssl x509.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl x509 man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-x509, x509 \- X.509 certificate processing and conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl x509 [-inform PEM|DER] [-in file] [-outform PEM|DER] [-out file] [-req] [-signkey file] [-extfile file] [-extensions section] [-sha1|-sha224|-sha256|-sha384|-sha512] [-noout] [-text] [-subject] [-issuer] [-serial] [-dates] [-email] [-fingerprint] [-purpose] [-hash] [-modulus] [-pubkey]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads an X.509 certificate and converts it between PEM and DER formats
and/or prints selected fields. By default the (re-encoded) certificate is
written to the output.
.SH OPTIONS
-in file              the certificate file to read from (optional; reads
.br
                      stdin when omitted).
.br
.LP
-out file             output file to write to.
.br
.LP
-inform PEM|DER       input format of the certificate.
.br
.LP
-outform PEM|DER      output format of the certificate.
.br
.LP
-req                  treat the input file as a CSR and sign it into a
.br
                      certificate. Requires a matching -signkey; cannot be
.br
                      used alone to view or convert a CSR. PEM CSR input is
.br
                      supported; DER CSR input with -inform der is not
.br
                      (input is parsed as a certificate).
.br
.LP
-signkey file         private key used when signing a CSR with -req.
.br
.LP
-extfile file         configuration file for extensions. Only takes effect
.br
                      when both -req and -signkey are also given; otherwise
.br
                      silently ignored (see NOTES).
.br
.LP
-extensions section   section of the config file to use. Only takes effect
.br
                      when both -req and -signkey are also given; otherwise
.br
                      silently ignored (see NOTES).
.br
.LP
-sha1, -sha224, -sha256, -sha384, -sha512
.br
                      digest to use when signing a CSR with -req (default
.br
                      SHA-256 when omitted).
.br
.LP
-noout                do not output the certificate.
.br
.LP
-text                 print human readable text of the certificate.
.br
.LP
-subject              print out the subject name.
.br
.LP
-issuer               print out the issuer name.
.br
.LP
-serial               print out the serial number in hex.
.br
.LP
-dates                print out the validity dates of the certificate.
.br
.LP
-email                print out the subject's email address.
.br
.LP
-fingerprint          print the SHA-1 fingerprint of the certificate DER.
.br
.LP
-purpose              print out the certificate's purpose.
.br
.LP
-hash                 print out the hash of the certificate subject name.
.br
.LP
-modulus              print out the RSA key modulus.
.br
.LP
-pubkey               print out the public key.
.SH NOTES
Unless both -req and -signkey are used, -extfile and -extensions are
silently ignored on output: the (re-encoded) certificate is written from
the original input DER, not from any in-memory changes made while parsing
extensions.
.LP
When -text is used on a certificate containing an ML-DSA SubjectPublicKey,
the output shows the algorithm OID but does not decode key bytes due to
library limitations.
.SH EXAMPLES
View certificate details in human-readable format:
.RS
wolfssl x509 -in mycert.pem -text -noout
.RE
.LP
Check when a certificate expires:
.RS
wolfssl x509 -in mycert.pem -dates -noout
.RE
.LP
Extract the public key from a certificate:
.RS
wolfssl x509 -in mycert.pem -pubkey -noout > pubkey.pem
.RE
.LP
Convert a PEM certificate to DER:
.RS
wolfssl x509 -inform pem -in certs/ca-cert.pem -outform der -out certs/ca-cert.der
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-req(1) ", " wolfssl-ca(1) ", " wolfssl-verify(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
