.\" Manpage for wolfssl rsa.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl rsa man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-rsa, rsa \- RSA key processing
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl rsa [-in file] [-inform PEM|DER] [-out file] [-outform PEM|DER] [-passin source] [-pubin] [-pubout] [-RSAPublicKey_in] [-noout] [-modulus]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Reads an RSA key, converts it between PEM and DER, and prints selected
key information. This is the RSA key-processing command; for legacy RSA
signing and verification see the sign/verify documentation (wolfssl -rsa
-sign / -verify).
.SH OPTIONS
-in file              input file for the key to read.
.br
.LP
-inform PEM|DER       input format.
.br
.LP
-out file             file to write the result to (default stdout).
.br
.LP
-outform PEM|DER      output format.
.br
.LP
-passin source        password source for PEM-encrypted input files, e.g.
.br
                      pass:<password> or stdin. Applies to PEM input only;
.br
                      DER private-key reads ignore -passin.
.br
.LP
-pubin                expect a public key as input. Also forces public-key
.br
                      output (equivalent to setting -pubout).
.br
.LP
-pubout               output a public key.
.br
.LP
-RSAPublicKey_in      expect an RSAPublicKey-format public key as input.
.br
.LP
-noout                suppress key re-encoding on output. Does not suppress
.br
                      -modulus output when both are given.
.br
.LP
-modulus              print out the RSA modulus (n).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-genkey(1) ", " wolfssl-pkey(1) ", " wolfssl-sign_verify(1) ", " wolfssl-dgst(1)
.SH NOTES
Available only when wolfSSL is built with filesystem support.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
