.\" Manpage for wolfssl command line utility main options.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH  wolfSSL SSL1 "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl \- wolfSSL Command Line Utility.
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl COMMAND [OPTIONS]... [ARGUMENTS]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The wolfssl program is a command line tool for using various cryptographic functions of wolfSSL's wolfCrypt cryptography library.
wolfSSL supports industry standards up to the current TLSv1.3 and DTLSv1.3 and offers a simple API for ease of use. It can be utilized for:
    \- Encryption and decryption with ciphers
    \- Hashing functionality
    \- Benchmark utilities
    \- X.509 certificate processing and conversion
    \- Certificate requests and signing (CA)
    \- Key generation and key format conversion
    \- Signing and signature verification
    \- TLS client/server testing
.SH QUICK START
Here are three common tasks to get started:
.TP
.B Encrypt a file with a password
.RS
wolfssl encrypt -aes-cbc-256 -in myfile.txt -out myfile.enc -pwd mypassword
.RE
.TP
.B Generate a 2048-bit RSA key pair
.RS
wolfssl genkey rsa -size 2048 -out mykey -outform pem
.br
(writes PEM keys to mykey.priv and mykey.pub; default output format is DER)
.RE
.TP
.B Create a certificate for testing
.RS
wolfssl req -new -x509 -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout mykey.pem -out cert.pem -days 365 -subj "/C=US/O=Test/CN=localhost"
.RE
.TP
To explore more, see the COMMAND SUMMARY below, or run:
.RS
wolfssl -h
.RE
.SH COMMAND SUMMARY
wolfSSL offers many different commands, all of which have a variety of options and arguments.
This utility is to be used with wolfSSL installed and the available commands depend on the wolfSSL ./configure options.
Most commands have their own man page (named wolfssl-<command>) with full details.
Some are grouped: bench is documented in wolfssl-bench, the hashing shortcuts
md5/sha256/sha384/sha512 alias wolfssl-hash, and the raw sign/verify key types
alias wolfssl-sign_verify; help has no separate page, and version is documented
in wolfssl-version(1).

Certificates and CAs
        ca             sign certificates from a CSR or self-sign
        x509           X.509 certificate processing and conversion
        req            generate certificate requests / self-signed certs
        verify         verify an X.509 certificate chain
        crl            parse and verify Certificate Revocation Lists

Keys
        genkey         generate cryptographic keys
        pkey           public/private key processing
        rsa            RSA key processing
        ecparam        EC parameter and key generation
        dsaparam       DSA parameter and key generation
        dhparam        Diffie-Hellman parameter and key generation

PKCS and signing
        pkcs7          parse PKCS#7 files
        pkcs8          PKCS#8 private key conversion
        pkcs12         parse PKCS#12 bundles
        dgst           create/verify message digest signatures
        ecc/ed25519/dilithium/xmss/xmssmt   raw sign and verify (see sign/verify; -rsa also)

Symmetric crypto and encoding
        encrypt        encrypt a file or input
        decrypt        decrypt a file or input
        enc            generic encrypt/decrypt (OpenSSL-style)
        base64         base64 encode/decode
        rand           generate random data

Hashing
        hash           hash a file or input
        md5            create an MD5 hash
        sha256         create a SHA-256 hash
        sha384         create a SHA-384 hash
        sha512         create a SHA-512 hash

Benchmark and TLS
        bench          benchmark the algorithms
        s_client       basic TLS client for testing
        s_server       basic TLS server for testing
        ocsp           OCSP client and responder (if supported)

Misc
        version        print wolfCLU/wolfSSL version
        help           print the help menu
.SH OPTIONS
Acceptable options can be brought up using either "-help" / "-h" or through the man pages of the individual commands.
.SH GLOSSARY
Common terms you'll see in wolfssl and cryptography:
.TP
.B PEM / DER
File formats for keys and certificates. PEM is text-based (starts with "-----BEGIN..."), DER is binary. Defaults vary by command (for example genkey defaults to DER); use -inform and -outform when converting.
.TP
.B CSR
Certificate Signing Request. A file you send to a Certificate Authority to request a signed certificate. Create one with
.B wolfssl-req(1).
.TP
.B CA
Certificate Authority. An entity that signs certificates, confirming they are valid. See
.B wolfssl-ca(1)
to sign requests yourself.
.TP
.B CRL / OCSP
Certificate Revocation List / Online Certificate Status Protocol. Ways to check if a certificate has been cancelled. See
.B wolfssl-crl(1)
and
.B wolfssl-ocsp(1).
.TP
.B PKCS#1, PKCS#8, PKCS#12
Key/certificate container formats. PKCS#8 is commonly used for private keys; PKCS#12 bundles a key and certificate together. See
.B wolfssl-pkcs8(1)
and
.B wolfssl-pkcs12(1).
.TP
.B Digest / Hash
A fingerprint of data (e.g., MD5, SHA-256). Cannot be reversed to get the original data. Commonly used to verify file integrity or as part of signing. See
.B wolfssl-hash(1)
and
.B wolfssl-dgst(1).
.TP
.B Salt
Random data added to a password before hashing, making dictionary attacks harder. Used in encryption with passwords.
.TP
.B Key Derivation
Converting a password into a cryptographic key suitable for encryption. See
.B wolfssl-enc(1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-encrypt(1) ", " wolfssl-decrypt(1) ", " wolfssl-genkey(1) ", " wolfssl-req(1) ", " wolfssl-ca(1) ", " wolfssl-x509(1) ", " wolfssl-verify(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
