.\" Manpage for wolfssl dgst.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl dgst man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-dgst, dgst \- create and verify message digest signatures
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl dgst [-md5|-sha|-sha224|-sha256|-sha384|-sha512] [-sign key | -verify key] [-signature file] [-inform PEM|DER] [-out file] <file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
Signs a file or verifies a signature over a file using a chosen digest
algorithm. A digest flag (e.g. -sha256) is required; there is no default.
The data that was signed is given as the final argument. RSA and ECC keys
are supported.
.SH DIGEST ALGORITHMS
-md5
.br
-sha
.br
-sha224
.br
-sha256
.br
-sha384
.br
-sha512
.SH OPTIONS
-sign key             private key used to create the signature.
.br
.LP
-verify key           key used to verify the signature.
.br
.LP
-signature file       file containing the signature to verify.
.br
.LP
-inform PEM|DER       input format of the key (default PEM).
.br
.LP
-out file             output file for the signature. Required when signing;
.br
                      optional when verifying.
.SH EXAMPLES
Sign a file:
.br
wolfssl dgst -sha256 -sign key.pem -out test.sig test
.br
.LP
Verify a signature over the file "test":
.br
wolfssl dgst -sha256 -signature test.sig -verify key.pem test
.SH NOTES
Available only when wolfSSL is built with filesystem support. On wolfSSL
later than 5.9.1, MD5 is below the default minimum signature hash.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-hash(1) ", " wolfssl-sign_verify(1) ", " wolfssl-genkey(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
