.\" Manpage for wolfssl pkcs8.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl pkcs8 man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-pkcs8, pkcs8 \- convert between PKCS#8 and traditional private key formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl pkcs8 [-in file] [-out file] [-inform PEM|DER] [-outform PEM|DER] [-passin source] [-traditional] [-topk8] [-nocrypt]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Converts private keys between PKCS#8 and traditional (PKCS#1) formats.
If neither -traditional nor -topk8 is given, output defaults to PKCS#8 PEM.
.SH OPTIONS
-in file              file input for the key (optional; reads stdin when
.br
                      omitted).
.br
.LP
-out file             file to write results to (default stdout).
.br
.LP
-inform PEM|DER       input format.
.br
.LP
-outform PEM|DER      output format.
.br
.LP
-passin source        password source for encrypted input keys, e.g.
.br
                      pass:<password> or stdin.
.br
.LP
-traditional          output the key in traditional (PKCS#1) format.
.br
.LP
-topk8                output the key in PKCS#8 format.
.br
.LP
-nocrypt              output an unencrypted private key.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-pkcs7(1) ", " wolfssl-pkcs12(1) ", " wolfssl-pkey(1) ", " wolfssl-genkey(1)
.SH NOTES
Available only when wolfSSL is built with PKCS#8 support (not NO_PKCS8) and
filesystem support. Encrypting PKCS#8 keys on output is not yet supported;
use -nocrypt when writing PKCS#8.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
