.\" Manpage for wolfssl s_server.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl s_server man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-s_server, s_server \- basic TLS server for testing connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl s_server -port <port> -cert <file> -key <file> [-CAfile file] [-noVerify] [-version n] [-naccept n] [-www] [-readyFile file] [-help]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Runs a simple TLS server for testing connections. Supply a certificate and
key (\-cert and \-key, PEM only). By default the server accepts one
connection and then exits; use \-naccept to change this.
.SH OPTIONS
-port n               port to listen on.
.br
.LP
-cert file            server certificate (PEM only).
.br
.LP
-key file             server private key (PEM only).
.br
.LP
-CAfile file          CA certificate for verifying client certificates
.br
                      (PEM only; forwarded as the server -A argument).
.br
.LP
-noVerify             disable the client certificate check.
.br
.LP
-version n            SSL/TLS version [0-4], SSLv3(0) through TLS1.3(4).
.br
.LP
-naccept n            number of connections to accept (default 1).
.br
.LP
-www                  respond in HTML format.
.br
.LP
-readyFile file       write a file once the server is listening, so a script
.br
                      can wait for it before connecting.
.br
.LP
-help, -h             print the s_server help summary and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Start a basic TLS server on port 443:
.RS
wolfssl s_server -port 443 -cert server-cert.pem -key server-key.pem
.RE
.LP
Start a TLS server that accepts multiple connections:
.RS
wolfssl s_server -port 8443 -cert server-cert.pem -key server-key.pem -naccept 10
.RE
.LP
Test with s_client in another terminal:
.RS
wolfssl s_client -connect localhost:8443
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-s_client(1) ", " wolfssl-req(1) ", " wolfssl-ca(1)
.SH NOTES
Available only when wolfSSL is built with filesystem support.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
