.\" Manpage for wolfssl s_client.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl s_client man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-s_client, s_client \- basic TLS client for testing connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl s_client -connect <host>:<port> [-starttls proto] [-CAfile file] [-verify_return_error] [-disable_stdin_check] [-noservername] [-help]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Opens a TLS connection to a server for testing. Server Name Indication is
sent by default. Certificate verification is disabled by default and can be
enabled with -verify_return_error.
.SH OPTIONS
-connect host:port    address and port to connect to. IPv6 addresses use
.br
                      bracket notation, e.g. -connect '[::1]:11111'.
.br
.LP
-starttls proto       use STARTTLS for the named protocol, e.g. smtp.
.br
.LP
-CAfile file          CA certificate file. Has no effect on whether the
.br
                      connection succeeds or fails unless
.br
                      \-verify_return_error is also given (see NOTES).
.br
.LP
-verify_return_error  close the connection on a verification error.
.br
.LP
-disable_stdin_check  do not wait for or read input on stdin; useful when
.br
                      scripting the client.
.br
.LP
-noservername         do not send Server Name Indication.
.br
.LP
-help, -h             print the s_client help summary and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
Connect to a server without certificate verification (testing only):
.RS
wolfssl s_client -connect example.com:443
.RE
.LP
Connect and verify the server's certificate:
.RS
wolfssl s_client -connect example.com:443 -CAfile ca-cert.pem -verify_return_error
.RE
.LP
Connect to an SMTP server using STARTTLS:
.RS
wolfssl s_client -connect mail.example.com:25 -starttls smtp
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-s_server(1) ", " wolfssl-verify(1) ", " wolfssl-ocsp(1)
.SH NOTES
Available only when wolfSSL is built with filesystem support.
.LP
The client negotiates the highest TLS version both peers support. CRL
checking is not performed. The server certificate is only verified when
\-verify_return_error is given; without it the connection proceeds
unverified (with a warning) even if \-CAfile is supplied.
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
