.\" Manpage for wolfssl command line utility hash.
.\" Contact facts@wolfssl.com to correct errors or typos.
.TH wolfSSL SSL1  "June 2026" "0.2.0" "wolfssl hash man page"
.SH NAME
wolfssl-hash, hash \- hashing utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
wolfssl hash <algorithm> -in filename [-out filename] [-size size]
.br
wolfssl md5|sha256|sha384|sha512 filename
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command hashes the contents of an input file based on the chosen
algorithm. For "wolfssl hash", an input file is required via -in. The
shortcut commands (md5/sha256/sha384/sha512) take the filename as a
positional argument (e.g. "wolfssl sha256 filename"). If no filename is
given, input is read from standard input. The digest is written to standard
output; shortcut commands do not accept -out or other options.
.SH ALGORITHMS
md5
.br
sha (SHA-1; only via "wolfssl hash sha -in file", no bare shortcut command)
.br
sha256
.br
(NOTE: The following are only available if ./configure supports them)
.br
sha384
.br
sha512
.br
blake2b
.br
base64enc / base64dec   (encode/decode, when coding support is enabled;
.br
                        base64enc additionally requires WOLFSSL_BASE64_ENCODE)
.SH SHORTCUT COMMANDS
The following may be used directly as the first argument to wolfssl as a
convenience. These shortcut commands use a different syntax than the
generic "wolfssl hash" command: they take the filename as a positional
argument rather than with the -in flag, and do not support -out:
.br
md5 filename       \- create an MD5 hash
.br
sha256 filename    \- create a SHA-256 hash
.br
sha384 filename    \- create a SHA-384 hash
.br
sha512 filename    \- create a SHA-512 hash
.SH OPTIONS
-in filename          the input file to hash (required for "wolfssl hash").
.br
                      The file must exist; if it cannot be opened the
.br
                      command exits with an error.
.br
.LP
-out filename         the output filename for "wolfssl hash" only. If the
.br
                      file does not exist, it will be created.
.LP
-size size            Usable only with Blake2b. Block size of the function.
.br
                      (only available for specific algorithms)
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wolfssl-md5(1) ", " wolfssl-sha256(1) ", " wolfssl-sha384(1) ", " wolfssl-sha512(1) ", " wolfssl-dgst(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs at this time.
.SH AUTHOR
wolfSSL, Inc. (facts@wolfssl.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2026 wolfSSL Inc.  All rights reserved.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report wolfssl bugs to support@wolfssl.com
